Good evening everyone again. Good evening. Thank you for coming and welcome. Thank you so much.
I also am honored and privileged right in front of you in talking about that big culture,
cultural and art and I'm very really proud of this. I'm so honored and thankful. Thank
for all the help and support by so many Sangha members here in the West Palm Beach and Florida
area and as well as in the New York and the area and so many people for supporting the help to
activate it to both this beautiful, magnificent show, the exhibitions, which represent the loving
kindness and compassion, respect and appreciation for all living beings. I'm so happy and really
delighted with these shows. And as well as also to have this opportunity, I'd like to thank
to Diane and the reverence of this the United Church and as well as also congregation as members
of everyone to allow us to show have these exhibitions. So I really thank you for that
without your help and even we have all these things we cannot really bring up here. So
I'm so thankful, so grateful to all of your support, help to every aspect. So without that,
again as I said we cannot happen this. And now I talk really about the art, art and culture.
Generally art and culture is the very beautiful treasure, the human value or treasure of the human
beings in every different country. Every different country has beautiful art, beautiful culture,
beautiful heritage and they all generally basically very similar everyone but even though
it's similar it has very its own unique qualities, unique qualities, special status and that's how
it
makes really distinctly beautiful things even though it's very similar things. So I talk a little
bit
about how that within the art and then of course it's connected with the culture so also art how
they how they kind of their philosophy how they they think that I will talk a little bit about that
and after that maybe you have some questions I like to kind of share and discuss or answer
that if you have some questions when you saw the exhibition and maybe you're thinking what
must be maybe what what maybe this is. So if you have some questions I'm very happy. So first I
talk a little bit about the art, art and then we have some discussions that so what about now the
art, generally in the the community they say the art can be divided in three different arts,
something that is connected with the physical and connected with verbal and connected with mind.
So that means what? It says art of the physical, art of the verbal or the vocal and art of the mind
.
So this is what generally I kind of way explaining or the way we see things. So everything is there
's
art, three arts. So that means art, body, speech or the verbal and mind. So three different art
and then each of those has also two different arts. So one is connected with generally only worldly
fa art and something where is connected more reverent connected with spiritual. Spiritual means
love and kindness, compassion, respect and appreciation. So some symbol in the monument
of love and kindness, compassion, those are like spiritual or in debate we called dharma. It's
connected with dharma. So there is two different kind of arts and what are personally art of the
physical. Art of the physical is something connected with the physical such as a statues,
all those statues, statues and a drawing of the physical. So those all are known as the art of
the body, art of the physical connected. And art of the physical connected also can be like as
statues or as casted statues as drawing, painting. Those are art of the physical. Each of those has
also different expressions. Expression of the passionate, expression of the very kind of like
rough and wrathful, expression of a very pathetic and a very subathetical. So explaining that kind
of carrying that playable and showing that if those art best artists really can express their
kind of emotion, their thought into that statues or the paintings or light drawings or cast. And
such
as I think that maybe one of the best examples of that in the in the modern time in western country
such as work. Monolysis, smile of monolysis, explaining that kind of beauty of the very gentle
and essential expression of the of that smiling such as monolysis. Those are known as the all art
art experience which is connected with physicals. And then verbal arts are such as all the tunes,
musics and all the vocal activities. Those are also connected with many different
expressions of such as like again very soothing, calming, frightening, frightening mood and as well
as very subathetical voice. Also it captures again emotion, it captures of the heart and the
mind of the others. This suddenly you really feel that kind of meaning behind what they
try to explain that. And those are known as in it according to Vedin. It's all the art of the
voice. And then art of the mind is something really connected with imaginations. All the different
imaginations such as everything activated what we do most of the time comes from the mind. So mind
is the initiative source of every art that comes. Also you can't really visualize that in the mind
and then it reflected on the form. So therefore all those are known as then mental
art and then mental activity can be divided according Buddhism. Then also those meditations,
mindfulness activities and such as the visualizations. So you meditate and you kind of
visualize different things and kind of like transforming that environment of that individual
into the same as you see. You are experienced in early that and that is again all those artists
best upon this mental art. It's best upon love and compassion, kindness, joy and respect and
appreciation, honest and truthful. Those are known as really about the art. And as I said already
those all pre-art that can be divided into two sections. One is a very regularly general worldly
kind of worldly art, other is spiritual or Dharma art that can be divided. And then we then that
also can be divided as a male and a female and a different people support. So that is really kind
of like overview of the idea of the art in it a bit. It comes. And now I talk a little bit really
about the this this art of the related with the Dharma that in it. Generally there's all these
both arts, regular worldly art and as well as related with the Dharma or the spiritual. But most
of the time in the Tibetan becomes one of the very spiritually connected countries on the earth.
And therefore mostly arts are all really connected with Buddhism. Mostly there's something
connected
with the loving kind, compassion, joy, respect and appreciations and kind of courage and commitment
and to preserve it. This your identity your call it of love and compassion how to reflect that all
really what it is. So basically kind of mostly is like this. But however again I talk a little bit
really about how the Buddhists started art. Begin with how Buddhist art particularly suggests as a
physical art. And that is always goes back to the Buddha's time. The first Buddha statue according
to Buddhist history it came in the journey the Buddha's time his lifetimes. They made first time
Buddha statues. It is story says that one Buddha reach enlightenment become the Buddha. Buddha and
after maybe about 10 years after the Buddha's Mahaprabhu, no sorry not Mahaprabhu, when Buddha
reach
enlightenment. Enlightenment and there is very famous king in central India is called the Magadha's
Magadha in the central India Magadha. Country of the Magadha. The king of that country is known as
as Bimbisara. Bimbisara very famous powerful king in that times. Also his capital was known as
Rajagiri's. Rajagiri's one of the very civilized country in that time on this earth according to
the teaching. Everything, cultural, music, art, and festivities. Everything, language, and art,
mathematics, and in every geometry, and science, and everything really exists in that countries.
And the king of that country is known as Bimbisara's. And that time there is also another king in
the
east of India. India is now modern time maybe known as the west of Bengal or in Bengal or in Orissa
.
It's kind of called the east of India. And there is one king known as Dado king. King. King.
Dado king is called Tengado. This king Dado and as well as Bimbisara
they become very good friends with corresponding. They never met each other but through the
corresponding they really become one of the best friends. Each of them they started sending
best gifts to each other. It is through the messages. This Dado king sent, King Dado sent
to the Bimbisara a very precious jewel, jewel armor to king. Very beautiful. In the teaching he
said
priceless jewel, jewel he sent, armor to send. So when the Bimbisara king, the Magadha king
received that when he saw that he was so excited and happy. He's impressed by the gift but his same
time he was worried. So what I can send to him is such a great king. Now he sent such a priceless
armor to me or the armor, right? Armor and I don't have any kind of gift like this. What do I do?
He was kind of like very worried. And the ministers said great king looks like you're very worried
what's happening. And he said because this friend, my friend sent the gift such a great gift
these things he showed this priceless gift but I don't have any equivalent gift to send to him.
This minister said don't worry. I think really you send the photo or the painting of the Buddha,
Buddha and ask to gracious teacher Buddha, Buddha and make that, ask him to make that. He let him
to do that painting. Yeah, painting. So then Bimbisara, he was very devoted to the Buddha,
King Bimbisara and he went to the Buddha and asked if he can make that. So then Buddha said yes.
So when he started drawing the light kind of like as drawing in the teaching said that artist when
he
were looking to the Buddha as a physical, they couldn't bear because the Buddha is glowing so
much glowing radiating that couldn't really look directly. So there of course the Buddha you will
well you come to the near the pond and reflect the image to the to the pond and then from the
pond then they will draw. So then that's what they did draw the Buddha reflection of the Buddha's
body to the pond from the water and then they they they draw they draw and they made the painting.
And so that represent the first time Buddha see like image in art and then target with that
Buddha when he created that also Buddha wrote some teachings, teachings explaining of the
12 interdependent links and this is a very famous Buddhist in the Buddhist the essential philosophy
is everything is connected to there's an if there's no connections and no kind of like
corporations things won't going to happen. Anything you see on this earth has so many
cores and so many conditions so many different kind of like support in on right on the front
and behind combination of all that makes then whatever you see you can see and this is called
known as interdependent coordination or interdependent linkage. And without that
there's nothing really going to see. So Buddha image and as well as some orders with that
teaching that put on this toga with the image and he's wrapped so beautiful with his silk and then
send that to the to the as a person to the king dado dado king and he told the police he received
this with great honor honor and this so he posed the king dado thought what does this means
great honor he is in a way to to honor to the gift that made them in a way almost
a kind of insulting me kind of he feel very upset in a way that but then second he thought
I shouldn't maybe upset what's the rest I will see what it is when he saw he then he began to
look to the open the gift and he saw the Buddha image and moment he opened in the teaching said
that such a great light came light came it kind of eliminated the whole things and king was moved
so much he feels so lucky and so precious he was so excited he will feel he really liked to see
these great beings and he asked to the others what is this so this is the first Buddha select
line drawns or the images in the buddhist stories second is then again again the second is happened
in that time of the again the buddha's abode language buddha was in in the 40s soon after
buddha left the kingdom in the age 29 kingdom and he become the enlightenment or become the buddha
at age 35 from that on he began to share this message of loving kind as a comparison non-volence
respect and appreciation and and the potential of the all the living beings those messages he began
to share in that but this father was still alive buddha's father still and he missed so much buddha
so much so then finally he sent the messages asked buddha if he can return back to the palace at
least
i would like to see so buddha i agree that he will come back to the compound to the country but he
said i will not going to stay in the palace i'm going to stay on the hermitage hermitage outside
of the city city so then king their father king built beautiful hermitage places outside of the
city in the outside the palace but at that time then his buddha began to give the teaching so many
student or the all the ministers and kings and queens and everyone that that country really
gathered and received the teachings whereas the buddha is giving the teaching there is so many
audience so many audience among them quite many also beautiful young girls those young
ladies are dressed up so beautifully so much beautiful ornament beautiful ornament and beautiful
accessory shops accessory accessories so many beautiful accessories and everybody those young
ladies are looking to each other's accessories and not really paying the attention to the what budd
ha
is talking to everybody and among that there is another very famous lady lady and the queen of the
king king of the zangdi she thought all this all young ladies are so excited extracted by their
own jewelry back and forth fold if i wear my jewelry they won't do this they won't kind of like
cheating so it's completely impressed so she said she told that and he asked her attendance
please go back to my house and get my jewelry my jewelry that attendance young lady was really
upset she's sending me back such a great teaching how he can do this but then she have to do she
have to go so she was left with a little bit kind of sad hard but during on the road she started
reflecting the teaching of the buddha buddha and what buddha saying all these things with kind of
very joy and appreciate the car and peaceful and then during that on that journey she was
killed by the cow the cow who gave the baby very what's called the birth of the baby and that
so she's cow is protecting her baby in a way depends and she honed honed and she died
because in the teaching said that she had mind is so peaceful more so calm and peaceful and because
of that power and the teaching of the buddhas buddhas immediately she told rebirth in the
singular shirilanka in now modern time shirilanka as princess king king of bad contours the moment
he was born and moment he reflected start communicated she's so kind so gentle so peaceful
so loving to everyone really that when she started speaking she liked to see my teacher she started
talking that and they don't know who is her teacher and all that and then she's the grown up there
and
then that time so many markings are coming from india to shirilanka and going back and they're
talking about the buddhas they know the buddha all these things so gradually she she got connected
with the merchant and martians told about the buddha and that's what he said that's my teacher
i like to see that and how i can get something kind of connection from that and something connected
to the buddha so because of this martians the records set and as well as heavy powers and
the second line drawing of the buddhas image was the buddha again he did this allow to do and send
send line drawing of the buddhas art and as well as some teachings written and sent back to here
and that moment moment he received that she got the greater realization she got the greater
realization and that's the second time in the buddhist art and then gradually and then buddha
statues sonapri and many times buddha that according buddhist tradition many monks and nuns
go to the to the dana or the sanga or many family many those devoted family offer the lunch they
eat only one term lunch in the day only one day male so monks and nuns and they offer also lunch
that so many times traditionally so then many times those monks and nuns comes to the to the lunch
and the buddha not always coming with them are coming them so many of those patterns have missed
the buddha having that and they ask please can we make a stage of you you and put with that on the
this hall wherever we give the offering the uh dana dana offerings the way we can put the thing
that you so buddha said yes so then they met the stage of the buddha that is that's the kind of
third trials then they had the station of the buddhas that and then gradually and his teaching
said even during his lifetime and then there is ministrages built by the king indara the god of the
king of the god very famous he built so many stages and those are gradually then came to the earth
and
when and buddha himself blessed and went to the different places and finally also the two of them
came to Tibet is in the time of the seventh century seventh century so very famous king of
turbid first dharma king and the turbid pondering father father of the art and the literature and
and and the cultural his name was he married three princes one from china one from nepal
both the prince bought two statue of the that buddha blessed which is the central kind of
playground with sport in ita bed from that time until now called the chorum bhutas so those are
the some history of the how buddha buddha stages began to come and as well as then art of the
those uh writing things uh his message the teaching so my barely talk about the art and this in the
in this uh in the church church all those many things are really connected with that
represent of those those art and so that's my really talk about the art and we have some
questions i'm very happy to discuss
yeah i had a question about the uh the large crystal perma in there what's the story with that
where did that come from and how did that come about crystal yeah this is uh we had we again
who was really blessed our perma sama buddha center our church is blessed by one of the very
courageous generosity dharma pattern and he passed away his name was bel himin and he went many
different places and he collected many different beautiful uh artists every different places so
this is the one of the his collations it is really crystal it is uh come from i think from nepal i
think right maybe i think so i don't know exactly where but this is one of the very famous
ritual uh symbol of ritual ritual ritual symbol is called purpa or the kalai in sanskrit it is a
symbolizing that will calm down that ego cling is in the buddhism ego killing is one of the
principal obstacles to to pour the peace and harmony and joy and this crystal dragar that
is called the kalai is a symbol to calm down to pacify the power of the ego clinging
self-important and self-centered mind that's what it is symbolized by that
yes most cultures paintings are in frames and they're solid on a wall and you can't bend them
but the Tibetan tankas you can roll up like how do the Tibetans can see you know the you know make
tankas that you can roll up rather than framing things on the on a wall that you can't move
this is generally Tibetan the ancient time ancient time uh kind of Tibet is really started with the
mall with the nomadic nomadic and also those big monasteries
big monasteries are started with the camping they call the camp camp so
camp so therefore camp means that is not really staying in one place moving moving to place to
places so therefore it's kind of like uh in the in the framed framed is difficult to carry that
so if you score it then is easy to carry so that's the how i think really started started and then
later it become the tradition tradition it become very even they're certain even they have the how
even they have the big monasteries and beautiful places then even still they start doing that and
they just become as part of the traditions and most of the time those has three kind of
frames that all of course most times broke head and three and Buddhism and kind of three is very
important Buddha Dharma Sangha and then also symbolize the different kind of levels of the
outer inner in a cigarette so those kind of the symbolizations of the there's three frames and
then to cite the ribbons those are they're known as like kind of like in the ancient time those
bullets uh you see some kind of like air ribbons they're putting in the tester so when they wear
the crowns there is like hanging hanging kind of uh sugs kind of ornamented so that symbolize
those two two ribbons ribbons and then this this front the kind of cover with again
red and yellow fabrics completely and that is the you see it is kind of like
clawed for the tanga it is like this is wrong symbolize but that's what it started yes is there
significance with yellow and red and it's about in a culture all around yeah red and yellow culture
is a very popular color in the Buddhism of at least the Tibetan Buddhism and the Buddha gave
monks and nuns two three colors and three color those are known as yellow red and blue colors
three colors so in the Tibetan Buddhism adopted more red colors and then yellow too more red
and then in Sri Lanka and Burma or Thailand they accepted more adopted the yellow colors kind of
or that and then I think in the China and then Japan maybe they adopted more blue color but then
later that become more gray gray color so that's the how I think it really happened so it is very
kind of Buddha say like what the Buddha allowed to and three colors and this white and yellow and
red also ancient time during the Buddha's time these colors are not kind of very highly honored
color they are very kind of like color of the farmers or the beggars or even sometimes they
said color of the wind they rub the body cremation time they use the color of the red
and yellow the yellow and the blue things the high honor colors are white at that time so
therefore the Buddha allowed to use this three color which is color of the not really respected
eyeliner color at that time more in touch with reality yeah that's true more kind of humble more
humility and the monks and nuns say they're kind of like still very subcontinent self-continent
yet to be kind of like to kind of avoiding all that so many ecstasy things that kind of traits
trying to stay more simple more humble more quiet but more joy and more respect and more love and
kind with mindfulness and that's really the message of the teaching so for to kind of
alloy to that call it this and then Buddha give those three colors
yes yes thank you very much I was wondering in your teaching about the first two Buddhist
objects of art about the representations of the Buddha's body would you speak a little bit more
about the Buddha's body like maybe a little bit about his major and minor marks what it would
be like to actually see the Buddha in person and maybe some of the meaning yeah Buddha has
Buddha's body always the Buddha's body has a beautiful color this and the speech has a
beautiful color this mind had beautiful extra only color this why because according to Buddha's
teaching teaching as many of you know that life is not just for example us it's not just the first
term on this earth nor it is not the last we go throughout the chain of lives lives similarly
Buddha went through himself went through the chain of lives one after another during those lif
etimes
before become the Buddha all those pretty was a lifetimes he did so many good activities best up
on loving kind and the computations and the compassion and wisdoms all those activities are
known as generosity activities morality activities patience and the joyful effort mindfulness and
versatile activities because did these activities to benefit all the beings therefore he got so
much
kind of a realization that realization and result from that so much that reflected to his physical
that reflected those result that power energy reflected to his voice and to reflect that to
the mind so when he's reflected his body in the buddhist that we called thirty two major marks
and eighty minor marks that symbolizing the Buddha is something special and beautiful
and the thirty two major marks what are the one of the major marks such as buddhist in the teaching
state and the Buddhism we believe Buddha's color is the golden column and that is one of the golden
completely beautiful golden color and Buddha is always also one of those is also very youthful
Buddha stayed as 81 light 81 years but yet he has never become old or the kind wrinkles
so always the skins are so youthful and tight and not lose loss lose no lose lose is tight and
youthful those are known as also one of the or some of the thirty two major marks and then
Buddha has also won some of the eighty thirty two major marks and the buddhist is has always aura
the visible aura you can see it's glowing aura see that that and then Buddha has also this
top knot top knot you see now kind of extra hair on this this is not just a muscle or this is not
like bone something that kind of like what's called banged his head somewhere and then
it's not according to Buddhism and the buddhist this is a light aura going up the current chakra
aura is going up but then artists they have to do something so it become like like that but
otherwise
it really is aura the light is going up so this those are the some the major marks of the physicals
and major marks of the speech's voice are Buddha's voice is always soothing
calming uplifting and the Buddha's voice is also timely spoken exactly as needed not too much up
not too much down exactly as neat exactly sweet with that individuals and Buddha's toe is has also
no distance where you whether you are in a close or whether you're part distance voice reach the
exactly same level to not shop to not so so low just know those are and then Buddha's voice of
course
is always true and honest and respect appreciator as I said as I said uplifting uplifting
encouragement
to wake up your own potentials your own nature your own beauty so it's really uplifting lifting
and Buddha's voice is also equal that to everyone nature is the same is not just kind of like
it is not kind of like uh owned by the some selected groups nature is equal to every living
beings so those are known as the some qualities of the voice major marks and then mind's major
mind is loving kindness compassion wisdom kindness has no difference between at all to every living
beings whether you Buddha know whether you know Buddha or whether you don't know Buddha this love
and compassion and is equal to everyone as the sunlight shine in the sky so that has no distinct
at all wherever the opportunity wherever that circumstance day there is sunlight comes and the
same way that's what teaching says so those are really the quality of the Buddha's the major marks
then Buddha's also then so major marks Buddha Buddha is never sweating Buddha never sweaters
then there are sweaters and the Buddha never smells the what's called order all those smells
and Buddha's also cloth according to teaching cloth is always not also touching exactly the
physical kind of is always there is a little space space day so air moves like this this and
those are known and then also Buddha's nail is always like pink as like copper colors colors
and very uh what's called leaves are red very nice perfectly red and all and Buddha is also not
too skinny and not too chubby just right yes all those are known as the minor marks and so all
together major and the minor marks in the teaching said 112 major mark and the minor marks together
and he has also blue eye Buddha is the blue eye blue eye and that is the major marks one of the
major but that's ice is really below or or turquoise eyes turquoise eyes okay thank you
yep really too as I said the Songzi Gumbo the first not first kind the very famous 33rd king
of Tibet known as Songzi Gumbo he married I mean he became the one of the also very powerful
arising power of the Tibetan dynasty and he married two princes one is a prince from China
or the tank tank dynasty the prince of tank dynasties and then he married with one also
from Nepal the king of Nepal I'm sure one more cold and two prince these two countries are already
buddhist countries that term buddhism is very flourishing in these two countries and buddhism
came with peace and harmony there is no come buddhism never came with war is with respect
and appreciation really adopted by all those countries because it tells peace harmony
comparison love and kindness it's good to everyone I mean that's what they all thought and then
adopted the teaching so so so the already buddhism is very flourishing but it's better is not
completely buddhist country that time time so this king Songzi Gumbo was very powerful king
and he was as I said before he was he is really the founder of the Tibetan art and cultural
literature and architectural and all these beautiful things and so when she said I said
when the post he married with uh Nepali princess and he bought buddhist statue at year
at year at year old buddha at year old size of the statues to Tibet which is now we called
chowom fjug dorjim is in his in his classa lasa and when he married with Chinese princess
and her name is wenchen kong yo and he bought with her is a 12 year old size of stage of buddha
that and which is in the now lasa in a principle of central chapel or central temple called chowom
bhuchis this both buddhas are the stages are balanced by the buddha chaktaman himself
according to made buddhist stories and therefore it is so powerful so blissful it is like for the
Tibetan it is like these two two statues I are like as like jerusalem or al mecha for the buddhist
and they really Tibetan buddhist everybody you say that if I kind of go today and had
opportunity to touch my head to dip the throne of the buddha I followed my lives
probably you say that so even far east corner of the tibet and the north and everywhere really
they go and go play germany to see that and then of course as well as many other in the area very
bliss okay thank you everyone thank you okay thank you thank you so much thank you thank you
everyone
Thank you.